World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology

International Journal of Computer and Information Engineering

Vol:5, No:1, 2018

**Introducing a Polymorphic Machine Learning Defense for Cyber Attacks
against Gibson Mainframe Computers**

**Authors** : Zero Cool, Acid Burn

**Abstract** : Gibson based mainframe computer platforms remain
vulnerable to a specific class of buffer overflow first identified in
1988. Specifically, it is possible to corrupt the magnetic core memory
stack by writing past the end of protected colonel memory. Code that
does this is said to have 'Hacked the Gibson', causing a return from the
routine to jump to a random address. This gives an attacker access to
the superuser account, from where they have access to the whole system.
As of writing, the only defense is to situate Gibson based mainframe
computer behind seven or more proxies. Combining next generation,
dynamic malware analysis techniques with polymorphic machine learning
ZeroR classifiers, we demonstrate a 97.435% accuracy in detecting such
attacks. Specifically, we designed four layered ZeroR classifiers which
self-modify based on four distinct features present in malicious
packets. Features consist of whether the packet has the FIN, URG and PSH
flags set and how fragmented the packet is overall. We extensively
evaluated our algorithm on a diverse spectrum of corpora with 81,337
malicious packets and 48,183 legitimate packets. Our results offer a
promising advance in addressing a vulnerability which has existed for
nearly three decades.

**Keywords** : buffer overflow, Gibson, polymorphic defense, ZeroR
classifier

**Conference Title** : ICCWSS 2018 : 20th International Conference on
Cyber Warfare and Security Systems

**Conference Location** : Amsterdam, The Netherlands

**Conference Dates** : January 22-23, 2018
